Congo is certainly not among the most popular travel destinations for tourists around the world,
but it is definitely a preaching paradise.
In general, very few people have reservations to discuss the personal spiritual convictions with strangers.
In addition, Jehovah's Witnesses are well known for their high moral standards
and their consistent Bible education.
It is not uncommon for non-witness parents to even solicit the services of a witness Bible teacher
in order to help their children become better persons and improve their performance in school.
As a result, the number of Bible studies is about three times the number of active witnesses,
and memorial attendance figures amount to almost five times the number of publishers.
As you can imagine, in a country where internet connections are pretty unstable in urban areas
and almost unavailable in more remote places,
it was a tremendous challenge for the friends to adapt to the alternative COVID-19 meeting and preaching methods.
Our branch benefited from many additional arrangements that have been kindly put in place
to assist these brothers and sisters to keep up to date with spiritual food
and stay active in the ministry, such as the JW Satellite TV Channel,
the JW Box Network, and pre-recorded public talks broadcast on local radio stations.
In addition, publishers came up with some very practical alternative preaching methods themselves.
For example, in a rural congregation called Pesci, deep in the interior,
the news of a worldwide pandemic costing hundreds of thousands of lives hasn't been perceived as more than a background noise.
Still, a temporary special pioneer called Emmanuel was determined to apply theocratic COVID-19 instructions.
But how could he continue to conduct his Bible studies in a place with no internet coverage and with students
who don't even possess smartphones?
This is what he came up with.
As his house has a main entrance and a back door, he advised his Bible students to come one by one,
enter through the back door, which he left open,
each one with his own chair, not touching anything in the room,
and sit down next to the closed door leading to the living room.
Emmanuel himself used the main door, said on the other side of that closed door in the living room
and conducted his studies, so to speak, behind the closed door.
So let's go back to the urban areas.
Here, government-imposed COVID-19 restrictions had a great impact on thousands of our self-employed brothers and sisters
who overnight were cut off their already meager sources of income.
Our branch was authorized to provide about 3,000 tons of staple food for more than 200,000 beneficiaries.
113 disaster relief committees distributed this humanitarian aid in only four months.
As food trucks pulled up at Kingdom Hall properties,
and later hundreds of individuals left with care packages, many onlookers were deeply impressed.
Once more, they realized how different Jehovah's Organization is from all the other religious entities around them.
While many pastors and preachers urged their church members to help them financially during the pandemic,
the witnesses distributed three goods to needy ones in their community.
Definitely, the fields in Congo are white for harvesting, and the repress rejoice.